---
layout: post
title: "B2A 002 - Andrea Dinneen"
date: 2021-03-14 12:00:00 -0600
file: https://drive.google.com/u/0/uc?id=1GIe3Wt4sA67cstsEZVELsMF2eEGi8GeQ
summary: "IDEO Design Lead & Data Scientist Andrea Dinneen talks about her journey from sociology and behavioral economics to data science."
description: "Andrea talks about her route to data science through sociology and behavioral economics."
duration: "24:27" 
length: "366"
explicit: "no" 
keywords: ""
block: "no" 
voices: "Chris Kucharczyk, Andrea Dinneen"
---

## Show Notes

My guest this week is Senior IDEO Designer & Data Scientist Ross Weijer. Ross and I discuss his
journey from studying music theory to a data science masters program to commercial real estate.

## Andrea Dinneen Bio

Andrea Dinneen is a Data Science Lead at IDEO. Her role on projects is to help teams understand human behavior from a quantitative perspective as well as think through what human-centered role data should play in IDEO products and/or services. Prior to joining IDEO, Andrea was a Senior Behavioral Researcher at Duke University's Center for Advanced Hindsight (CAH), a behavioral science research lab run by Dr. Dan Ariely. Within the CAH, Andrea focused specifically on improving financial wellbeing for low to moderate income Americans by running large field experiments with private and public partners. Andrea has also worked extensively in the public sector. She was a Senior UX Designer at Deloitte Digital where she helped federal agencies like the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, State of Pennsylvania, and Centers for Medicare and Medicaid design more citizen centric technology by making data-enable decisions. Andrea has a MA in Sociology from UCLA and a BA in Sociology and History from Rice University.