---
layout: post
title: "B2A 009 - Peter Winter"
date: 2021-05-03 09:00:00 -0600
file: https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/3r48h76vhut2jz0/B2A009%20-%20Peter%20Winter.mp3
summary: "IDEO Design Lead Peter winter talks about his complex journey through complex systems."
description: "Join Chris and Peter as they chat about worms, ranked choice algorithms, and the scientific method."
duration: "22:20" 
length: "1340"
explicit: "no" 
keywords: ""
block: "no" 
voices: "Chris Kucharczyk, Peter Winter"
---

## Selected Quotes

“It turns out that machine learning is not the answer to most problems… The types of problems that we come across when actually just listening to people and understanding their problems—some of the time, machine learning is the right approach, but a lot of the time, data as a whole and understanding information and getting them the right information in the right way is most helpful.”

“I did an undergrad for chemical engineering and that really ingrained into me systems thinking about inputs and outputs and mass balances and energy balances. I still to this day use the metaphor of water throwing flowing through pipes and filling up buckets and coming out of buckets as a way to think about systems — it's a surprisingly good analogy for a lot of data processing.”

“What really stuck with me from doing biological experiments is, one, real data is just very messy, incredibly messy. It's difficult to work with, you have to set up an experiment just right, and most of the time data actually doesn't really tell you anything... The other thing that it did is it ingrained a deep empathy for anybody who has to make their own data set themselves because it's so much work to get it right and to make high quality data.”

“The situation that I end up having to explain what I do most frequently is in all of the design research interviews we do. We go around the room and everybody has to say who they are and I have to summarize it very concisely, and be non threatening to not have something that's too technical or makes people feel intimidated because really we want to set the stage where they're the expert, and so in those situations, I just say ‘I'm the data guy.’”

## Peter Winter Bio

A Data Scientist at IDEO San Francisco, Peter is excited by the potential for AI to augment human creativity, improve work, and help society.

Before IDEO, he worked as a Data Scientist at Datascope, a cutting-edge data science consultancy, where he helped companies in diverse industries from medical insurance to manufacturing use data and computational techniques to solve complex business problems.

Peter obtained his PhD in Chemical and Biological Engineering at Northwestern University. At NU, he joined an interdisciplinary lab where he studied complex systems and honed his critical thinking skills while building tools for biologists to better quantify behavioral differences in tiny worms.

Professionally, Peter enjoys wrapping his mind around fresh datasets (and slowly digesting their contents). Personally, he enjoys eating burritos (also digesting their contents), biking, cooking, and speaking in public about silly and non-silly topics alike.