---
layout: post
title: "B2A 002 - Andrea Dinneen"
date: 2021-03-14 12:00:00 -0600
file: https://drive.google.com/u/0/uc?id=1GIe3Wt4sA67cstsEZVELsMF2eEGi8GeQ
summary: "IDEO Design Lead & Data Scientist Andrea Dinneen talks about her journey from sociology and behavioral economics to data science."
description: "Andrea talks about her route to data science through sociology and behavioral economics."
duration: "12:42" 
length: "762"
explicit: "no" 
keywords: ""
block: "no" 
voices: "Chris Kucharczyk, Andrea Dinneen"
---

## Selected Quotes

“I guess I technically became a data scientist when IDEO hired me... When I was in college, there was nothing called data science.”

“I chose sociology because I felt like looking at things from a data perspective gave me this new way to understand what was happening to me and people around me.”

“I would never have thought of myself as a data scientist, I would never have even applied, probably to IDEO’s data science role, but I saw [a post that Lisa Nash had done about being a data scientist at IDEO](https://www.ideo.com/blog/what-does-a-data-scientist-do-at-a-design-company) and I was like ‘Wow, I'd never thought about myself that way, but everything she's describing in this post is like what I would want to do, and would be kind of my ideal job.’”

“[Data Science] is just another lens to understand the world. Just like deep ethnographic or qualitative work is one way to understand [the world], looking at numbers is just another way, another lens that we could look at. **I kind of describe [data scientists] as people who like to enter the world via spreadsheets or by counting things.**”

“I'm always looking at the biases that underlie the data like how did this data, how in the real world, did this data collection process happen? What were the incentives at play? Who had an interest in reporting the data in this particular way? Why might we be able to not trust it? … **Data is a human creation there's always a human somewhere, creating it, so we have to understand how that person's thinking and working.**”


## Andrea Dinneen Bio

Andrea Dinneen is a Data Science Lead at IDEO. Her role on projects is to help teams understand human behavior from a quantitative perspective as well as think through what human-centered role data should play in IDEO products and/or services. Prior to joining IDEO, Andrea was a Senior Behavioral Researcher at Duke University's Center for Advanced Hindsight (CAH), a behavioral science research lab run by Dr. Dan Ariely. Within the CAH, Andrea focused specifically on improving financial wellbeing for low to moderate income Americans by running large field experiments with private and public partners. Andrea has also worked extensively in the public sector. She was a Senior UX Designer at Deloitte Digital where she helped federal agencies like the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, State of Pennsylvania, and Centers for Medicare and Medicaid design more citizen centric technology by making data-enable decisions. Andrea has a MA in Sociology from UCLA and a BA in Sociology and History from Rice University.