---
layout: post
title: "B2A 006 - Fra Valsecchi"
date: 2021-04-12 09:00:00 -0600
file: https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/32k7o8lyj7fxjvp/B2A%20006%20-%20Fra%20Valsecchi.mp3
summary: "IDEO Senior Design Lead Fra Valsecchi talks about her transition from astrophysics to data science, and why those two things aren't as different as it might seem."
description: "Fra and Chris talk about going down rabbit holes and how to ask data scientists questions."
duration: "21:49" 
length: "1309"
explicit: "no" 
keywords: ""
block: "no" 
voices: "Chris Kucharczyk, Fra Valsecchi"
---

## Selected Quotes

“I realized that, for some cases, problem solving in data science is pretty much the same as what I was already doing [in academia]. Finding a question, thinking about how to solve it, gathering the data, writing a piece of code to solve it, write about it, and maybe write a deck to present it at a conference—that was pretty much the same type of process, just with different data.”

“I generally try to start with what I think is the simplest thing I think is going to give me a result. Then I’m going to embellish it. That helps me minimize the amount of time I get stuck in rabbit holes. It also helps me give a starting point for everyone to anchor to, and a fallback for when you try to do something fancier and it doesn’t go as planned.”

“Rather than trying to define [data science], because there are a gazillion flavors of data scientists... I usually try to give examples. Just saying, ‘well I deal with data’, which is basically what we do, we deal with data—massage them, slice them, clean them, and dig through them—and then follow hunches, either our own or other people’s.”

“The client had in mind, ‘You’re gonna automate the whole process,’ [but] it was clear after we started the project that data were not meant to replace the humans or processes, data were meant to help build and maintain relationships.”

“The way people ask questions of data scientists can send them into endless rabbit holes. **Instead of asking, ‘could you do this?’, ask ‘how long do you think it would take you to do this?’** That way, you force the data scientist to think about how to gather that information and start a conversation about it.”


## Fra Valsecchi Bio

Fra is a Data Scientist & Design Lead at IDEO where she uses data to uncover tangible human needs to inform client solutions.

From helping companies launch new ventures to nudging people towards healthier habits and happier lives, Fra uses data to unlock the potential of her client’s products, people, and customers.

Prior to IDEO, Fra was an astrophysicist at Northwestern exploring the formation of other planets. She left academia to pursue her dream of designing and creating for human needs. Before that, Fra lived in Milan, Italy, where she received a BS in Physics from The University of Milan.

Outside of IDEO, Fra applies her design thinking skills of experimenting and prototyping, to refining her Italian cooking, experimental dieting, and home exercise set up. During the Covid lockdown, Fra decided to start a food blog to help Italians navigate food allergies and sensitivities (https://www.lacucinadellafra.com). When not cooking, Fra enjoys running, biking, picnicking (or really any activity that involves enjoying the briefly human-friendly Chicago weather), and eating gelato.