---
layout: post
title: "B2A 012 - Mike Stringer"
date: 2021-10-04 09:00:00 -0600
file: https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/ax6hjntnq0x75ds/B2A%20012%20-%20Mike%20Stringer.mp3
summary: "IDEO Executive Design Director and Partner Mike Stringer"
description: "A double-whammy of nerdery."
duration: "25:16"
length: "1516"
explicit: "no"
keywords: ""
block: "no"
voices: "Chris Kucharczyk, Mike Stringer"
---

## Selected Quotes

"I have a luxurious, full head of wavy hair."

"Data Science is so broad of a term that it's hard to give generalized advice."

## Mike Stringer Bio

An Executive Design Director at IDEO, Mike is passionate about using science and design to improve business and society. He works to continuously push IDEO's abilities in data science, maintain and sharpen IDEO's human-centered focus, and explore creative ways to realize the positive potential of data and algorithms.

Mike joined IDEO through the acquisition of Datascope, the data science consulting company he co-founded in 2009. At Datascope, Mike led and contributed to projects across a variety of industries for clients such as Google, Procter & Gamble, Thomson Reuters, Bristol-Myers Squibb, and Steelcase. He also worked on the business of Datascope and strove to support everyone in doing excellent, meaningful work.

Mike found his way into design via a background in engineering, physics, and the analysis of complex systems, where he used computational techniques within multidisciplinary teams to study a wide range of evolved systems — from biological to sociological to technological. He often looks for design inspiration from these evolved systems.

Mike received his BS in Engineering Physics from the University of Colorado, a Ph.D. in Physics from Northwestern University.

Inside and outside of work, Mike is a curious person. He loves to read fiction and nonfiction, play outside, dabble with making art, and search for connections between disparate topics. His most inspirational and influential teachers are his two young daughters.
