---
layout: post
title: "B2A 007 - Dean Malmgren"
date: 2021-04-19 09:00:00 -0600
file: https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/qw2pabal6i9s6eo/B2A%20007%20-%20Dean%20Malmgren.mp3
summary: "IDEO Executive Portfolio Director Dean Malmgren talks about his background in complex systems and his lack of a background in statistics."
description: "Chris and Dean chat about what science is and isn't, and also about Hallmark greeting cards."
duration: "22:04" 
length: "1324"
explicit: "no" 
keywords: ""
block: "no" 
voices: "Chris Kucharczyk, Dean Malmgren"
---

## Selected Quotes

“I \[couldn’t care less\] whether it's a log-normal or power law distribution or anything else for that matter - if we don't understand the origin of it, it’s actually not science to me. What I think is really powerful about data sciences being able to design algorithms that are a digital twin of the behavior that we are seeing in real life. I tend not to be too enamored with black box statistical modeling, I tend not to over index on neural networks that we don't really understand unless there's a firm basis for why those would exist, and why they would work the way they do.”

“I think there are a couple of really essential elements [to data science.] One is being able to effectively tell stories with data in a compelling way. And so that involves a fair bit of data visualization, developing a narrative and a story to go with it. and interrogation of data to know what it says and what's missing. The other aspect to me is much more creative and generative which is listening to people and what they need and translating that into how we could come up with algorithms that might help them make better decisions or influence them in some way or help them keep on track for some broader ambition that they might have. Those are symbiotic and have to play off each other.”

“One of the things that. I would encourage other teammates of data scientists to do is to invite them into the process of sketching and drawing and getting stuff up on the wall. And whenever possible, give data scientists space when they need an afternoon to just crank something out because there is a bit of heads-down time that's needed to make enough progress \[on something.\]”

## Dean Malmgren Bio

Throughout Dean's career, he has taken pride in fearlessly asking questions, impatiently pushing himself, inspiring others, passionately learning new topics, and otherwise leading by example.

Dean joined IDEO through the acquisition of Datascope, a data science consulting firm he co-founded in 2009. At Datascope, Dean and his colleagues pioneered the practice of human-centered data science by incorporating lessons from the design, software development, and entrepreneur communities, which allowed them to deliver meaningful solutions for clients ranging from Fortune 500 clients like P&G and Oracle to local non-profits and start-ups like IssueLab.

As an Executive Portfolio Director at IDEO, Dean helps IDEO and its clients identify meaningful opportunities to use data as a design medium and push the boundaries of data science in service of humans. This involves everything from understanding the needs of people and data asset design to product differentiation and algorithm design.

Dean discovered his passion for computational modeling as an undergraduate at the University of Michigan (BS Mathematics, BSE Chemical Engineering) and was inspired by the potential of data and algorithms as a graduate student at Northwestern University (PhD Chemical & Biological Engineering) where he studied the interdisciplinary area of complex systems.

Dean's work has been featured in places like Crain's, TIME, FastCo, Wired, and US News & World Report and, whenever possible, he shares his experience and perspective through his writing and speaking. He further gives back by maintaining open source projects like textract and scrubadub and advising organizations like Elemetric, Metis, NUvention Analytics, and the School of Information at the University of Michigan.