---
layout: post
title: "B2A 003 - Nat Steinsultz"
date: 2021-03-22 09:00:00 -0600
file: https://www.dropbox.com/s/kgeo6hfy7wd9tsb/B2A%20003%20-%20Nat%20Steinsultz.mp3
summary: "Former IDEO Senior Designer & Data Scientist Nat Steinsultz, now a Data Analyst at WattTime, talks about leaving academia behind for a career in data science."
description: "Nat talks about his route to data science through shooting lasers at diamonds."
duration: "15:52" 
length: "952"
explicit: "no" 
keywords: ""
block: "no" 
voices: "Chris Kucharczyk, Nat Steinsultz"
---

## Selected Quotes

“The way I like to do [data science] is modeling… When I'm tackling a problem I'm thinking, how can I describe this system? How can I describe what's going on? And that's often using quantitative tools, so asking how can I describe the behavior and the dynamics of that system \[quantitatively\]?”

“The answer I give when I go through customs and they're like, ‘What is your job?’ and I'm like ‘I'm a data scientist’ and they say ‘I don't know what that means’ I say ‘I do like math and computers and stuff.’”

“I think some of my favorite moments have been literally sitting side by side with a designer working on one computer designing a visualization... There's a hilarious picture from a project where Ryan is [working with a UX designer and] literally holding a ruler to the monitor checking to see if things are level.”

“One of the biggest things I have found working with people, particularly who weren't familiar with data science, is that the more that you can ask questions about things you don't understand, the better. So really just ask lots of questions, even if they feel really stupid.”



## Nat Steinsultz Bio

Nat is a Designer in the Data Science Discipline at IDEO Chicago. He is excited about making data science and machine learning accessible and beneficial to everyone. He is also interested in exploring how analysis and simulation can be part of the design process.

Nat started his data science career at Datascope only a few months before it joined IDEO, but has already had the opportunity to work on projects in areas including transportation, education and retail. Prior to that, he received his PhD in physics from the University of Maryland, College Park, where he worked in a lab building equipment to shoot lasers at diamonds. Realizing he wanted to spend more time talking to people instead of lasers, he got involved with data science through side projects and volunteering with DataKind, a data science non-profit.

Outside the scope of data, Nat enjoys cooking meals for friends, committing to the bit, and listening to or playing loud weird music.

