---
layout: post
title: "B2A 008 - Brian Lange"
date: 2021-04-26 09:00:00 -0600
file: https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/lehjvpp94eupapb/B2A008%20-%20Brian%20Lange.mp3
summary: "IDEO Design Director Brian Lange talks about arriving at data science from a software background."
description: "Join Chris and Brian as they chat about Scholastic Book Fairs, the data science ecosystem, and why data isn't like Home Depot."
duration: "22:04" 
length: "1324"
explicit: "no" 
keywords: ""
block: "no" 
voices: "Chris Kucharczyk, Dean Malmgren"
---

## Selected Quotes

“Way back in like fifth or sixth grade in a scholastic book catalog, there was a book about making your own website and young Brian was like, ‘Yeah, that sounds fun!’ And so I started dabbling, and that was my intro to programming and computer nerdery.”

“I've tended to come from that computation side more than just like a pure math perspective.”

“I think being fluent in software and able to express ideas in software, the nice thing is that there's no line between ‘what is data science’ and ‘what is building some other part of a software system’. So it's easy if you're comfortable programming to kind of extend an idea from, ‘this is something that I'm analyzing’ to ‘this is something that I'm making’ in terms of like an application or a visualization. You’re trying to get a computer to do something.”

“I think the most compelling definition of what data science is that I've run across was in the [first issue of the Harvard Data Science Review](https://hdsr.mitpress.mit.edu/pub/jhy4g6eg/release/7?readingCollection=72befc2a)... They described it as an ecosystem. They compared it to something like the humanities, for example, that is an ecosystem of fields and there's some things that are relevant to everybody within that ecosystem, there are ways that the different parts of that ecosystem interact with each other.”

“The material that data scientists work with is data. And data is imperfect, data takes a lot of time to create, and intention to create, especially data that looks exactly the way that you want it to, which I guess it never really does. But data that applies to the question that you might have is not always easy to come by. Our medium isn't isn't pixels, it isn't wood, we can't just open a new canvas and start right from there, we can't drive down to the home depot and like fill up the pickup truck and have everything we need to start building. We have to be really thoughtful about the material we're using, and that means sometimes that it can take a bit of time to do stuff.”

## Brian Lange Bio

Brian Lange is a Design Director based in IDEO's Chicago studio. He's passionate about data science practiced as a discipline of design and the impact that human centered design and stories can have on organizations. At IDEO, he's led multidisciplinary design teams focused on new venture development and has helped pilot new mobility services as a Data Scientist.

Before IDEO, he was a Partner & Data Scientist at Datascope, where he built software, trained models, and led teams through the design process on projects for P&G, Thomson Reuters, Motorola, CapitalOne, and others. He also taught data science courses with Metis.

While he's not nerding out about data, organizations, and design, he enjoys cycling, gardening, and getting down to house music.
