---
layout: post
title: "B2A 001 - Ross Weijer"
date: 2021-03-08 09:00:00 -0600
file: http://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/n0e29ersb1mdf8c/B2A%20001%20-%20Ross%20Weijer.mp3
summary: "On this inaugural episode, IDEO Senior Designer & Data Scientist Ross Weijer talks about his path to data science, and the similarities he notices between interpreting music and interpreting data"
description: "My inaugural guest this week is Senior IDEO Designer & Data Scientist Ross Weijer. Ross and I discuss his journey from studying music theory to a data science masters program to commercial real estate."
duration: "24:27" 
length: "1467"
explicit: "no" 
keywords: ""
block: "no" 
voices: "Chris Kucharczyk, Ross Weijer"
---

### Selected Quotes

"I'm definitely not one of these lab nerds with their test tubes, wandering around."

"I proudly wear the title ‘SQL Jockey.’"

"My background really is like an analyst of music. I actually think a lot of that is closer to data analysis than folks may think. If you look at a piece of music, there's lots of different ways that you could attempt to explain what that piece of music “means,” to the extent it means anything... You could look at the raw musical material, the notes, the rhythm, the tempo, the way those notes are arranged, the structure of everything. You could look at the historical and societal context… And none of those explanations of the piece is really correct right? It's all about forming the best case that you have for why you're telling this story about this really vague and kind of non-deterministic thing that's been put in front of you. **There’s never really one answer to looking at any set of data that you would give to me as a data scientist...** I'm just gonna marshal the best evidence that I can."

"What I do as a data scientist is not magic... I think the danger with calling it 'magic' is it frees us from having to do a lot of the difficult work of actually engaging with what's going on and what's happening and what the consequences are."


### Ross Weijer Bio

Ross is a data scientist and senior designer at IDEO Chicago. He has performed music on the stage since third grade, and spent his college years using music theory and historiography to tell compelling analytical stories. His boundless curiosity eventually led him to explore how to use data and programming to ask and answer questions, and his experience analyzing music helps him break down vague and complex data into understandable and meaningful stories, allowing clients to frame better problems and move confidently toward solutions. 

Ross believes that just like music needs a venue and an audience in order to be fully appreciated, data needs infrastructure and facilitation in order for humans to work with and appreciate it. Ross is dedicated to building venues (information ecosystems) that make it possible for people to work with data.

At IDEO, Ross uses data science and software to prototype new models of mobility, reenvision how people find physicians, and encourage equity and innovation in classrooms across the country. He also belonged to a team that designed, developed, and piloted a holistic end-to-end program that helps people living with type 2 diabetes manage it on their own terms. This exemplifies Ross's core belief that data can forge more supportive and effective relationships, in this case allowing certified diabetes educators to teach people how to set meaningful and achievable health goals. 

Prior to working at IDEO, Ross was a data scientist at Datascope Analytics, which was acquired by IDEO in 2017. Ross received his undergraduate and graduate degrees at the University of Chicago. He likes to spend his free time playing music, thrashing around on his skateboard, and responding to the whims of his benevolent feline overlords.