---
layout: post
title: "B2A 005 - Bo Peng"
date: 2021-04-05 09:00:00 -0600
file: https://www.dropbox.com/s/l1bwcmhwuwulzjd/B2A%20005%20-%20Bo%20Peng.mp3
summary: "IDEO Data Scientist & Portfolio Director Bo Peng talks about her experiences as a data scientist, from an academic background in math and statistics to trying to communicate what data science is."
description: "Bo talks about what she's learned on her data science journey, from unlearning aspects of her rigorous statistics training to observing cultural differences in our relationship with data."
duration: "22:07" 
length: "1327"
explicit: "no" 
keywords: ""
block: "no" 
voices: "Chris Kucharczyk, Bo Peng"
---

## Selected Quotes

“I had opened myself to the possibility of doing a PhD, but week two I was like, ‘Nope! Gotta get out of here as soon as possible.’”

“My math and statistics background was fairly rigorous… But I’ve had to unlearn some things, too. This is the real world. There is the Platonic ideal of what some model is going to tell you given some assumptions, but then there is what’s really out there in the world and what people are actually doing or saying. There’s the Platonic ideal of a dataset, and then there’s a real life data set.”

“I spent almost a year working at the IDEO Shanghai studio, and just the way that consumers and people think about data and their social contract with each other and with those large tech companies that own their data and digital footprint, the things they get out of that \[relationship\]. That kind of contract just does not exist here in the West. Many products there would never fly here, not just for privacy concerns, but for a whole host of cultural norms… That’s shaped how I think about data science a fair amount.”

“As much as I wish that there was some official Oxford dictionary definition of what data science is, I feel like we’re at least a couple decades out from that, if we ever come up with something like that, and it might just change and change and change anyway.”

## Bo Peng Bio

Bo is a Director at IDEO focused on the intersection of data science and human-centered design. She is passionate about using data as a resource to improve the way people work, play, and think. Currently based in the United States, she has recently returned from a rotation in Shanghai, leading the growth of IDEO's data science capabilities in Asia, and pushing the boundaries of intelligent systems and human centered data science across varying markets, mindsets, and values.

Prior to IDEO, Bo was a Partner and Data Scientist at Datascope, a cutting-edge data science consultancy based in Chicago. Bo led a series of diverse engagements with deep technical expertise, including partnering with P&G to systematically surface subject matter experts and collaboration opportunities; with Steelcase to prototype the next wave of smart workplace and employee engagement tools; and with test-prep giant Kaplan to launch an immersive bootcamp for people transitioning into data science careers. She also helped grow the business of Datascope, shaping a range of responsibilities from business development to recruitment. 

Bo has spoken at several conferences and events about applying human-centered design to data science projects. She was previously head organizer of the Data Science Chicago and the Chicago Women in Machine Learning & Data Science meetups.

Bo holds an MS in Statistics and a BS in Mathematics, both from The University of Chicago, and was named one of Crain's 2019 Tech 50.