---
layout: post
title: "B2A 010 - Michael Moliterno"
date: 2021-05-10 09:00:00 -0600
file: https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/n5hmeyjpe9btt1o/B2A%20010%20-%20Michael%20Moliterno.mp3
summary: "IDEO Senior Design Lead Michael Moliterno talks about coming to data science from business & government consulting."
description: "Michael chats with Chris about complex systems, data as exhaust from business systems, and getting to Malmö through Copenhagen."
duration: "25:15" 
length: "1515"
explicit: "no" 
keywords: ""
block: "no" 
voices: "Chris Kucharczyk, Michael Moliterno"
---

## Selected Quotes

“I think that the \[bootcamp\] prepared us pretty well because it was taught in a project style way. There were five projects and they got less and less scoped and more and more open as we went, which I think is a pretty good prep for consulting work because you've generally got many, many directions that you have to go far fewer constraints than you'd actually wish. And you've got to make progress and decisions in a matter of weeks, not years, so you kind of just have to make a call of what to focus on.”

“Data science work ultimately manifests itself going into production, just like any other piece of software. And the realities and complexities of actually doing software development, especially in big and complex organizations—you can't start development without considering where your work is going to end up.”

“One of the ways that we think about the data that we use in data science is that they're exhaust from our clients’ business systems. And all of those business systems are these big clunky ERP systems where people are processing payroll or managing accounts or you name it. And if we want to use that data and and actually close the loop on a lot of that data it means figuring out how to actually design software for people that are using it.”

“It's very hard, though, to differentiate data engineering from data science from computer science, or just software engineering because decisions that you make at all of those layers can affect how the data is stored and processed and so it's tough to tease apart.”

“At a high level, people are looking for answers or patterns or trends and we're there to help them figure out if there's a there there, and then, if there is a there there like, how can you actually link this with a piece of software, so that someone can make a decision or take an action on it.”

“If a data scientist is not able to explain something to you in a way that you can understand, they're not doing their role because they need to be translators.”


## Michael Moliterno Bio

Michael is Senior Design Lead and Data Scientist working out of the Chicago studio. Whether he is leading or supporting a team, Michael focuses on designing and building intelligent products and services that help people make better decisions or work more efficiently. Data science techniques are often a component of these designs, but he thinks that the real fun is finding the right questions to ask and the right opportunities to truly augment human decisions for the better.

Michael came to IDEO as a part of the Datascope acquisition in 2017 where he worked for two years on a variety of data science projects. Prior to Datascope, Michael spent five years with Deloitte Consulting and Howard Hughes Medical Institute supporting a variety of software development, enterprise architecture, and infrastructure monitoring projects.

Michael’s love of analytics first manifested itself as an obsession with baseball statistics and was further reinforced by his background in Systems Engineering and Economics from the University of Virginia. Outside of IDEO, Michael enjoys keeping up with the latest in sabermetrics and sports analytics, traveling, and searching the world for the perfect nacho