---
layout: post
title: "B2A 011 - Chris Walker"
date: 2021-05-17 09:00:00 -0600
file: https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/9erdcqrjk3lrk8l/B2A%20011%20-%20Chris%20Walker.mp3
summary: "IDEO Design Lead Chris Walker talks about econometrics and the promise of unsupervised learning."
description: "Join Chris and Chris as they talk about GPT-4, unsupervised learning, and explaining your jokes."
duration: "22:41" 
length: "1361"
explicit: "no" 
keywords: ""
block: "no" 
voices: "Chris Kucharczyk, Chris Walker"
---

## Selected Quotes

“Like most data scientists, I never really set out to be a data scientist.”

“What economists call econometrics, data scientists probably call statistics.”

“One thing I got really interested in was causal inference—the social scientific method of understanding ‘why.’ I never really had a background in sort of the more traditional machine learning stuff, so for me it was using those tools [of causal inference] to help facilitate those ‘why’ questions.”

“The big reframe for me, coming to IDEO, has been thinking about data and the tools to apply to research as more of a kind of creative medium.”

“Within data science there's so many different directions you can take. You can get into some pretty hardcore machine learning stuff… I think a big piece is, how do you make the outputs of a model or a piece of research or a prototype very, very tangible, and something that people who have non technical backgrounds can sort of relate to or or or understand? I think a lot of that comes down to the storytelling piece.”

“I find unsupervised learning so much more interesting than supervised stuff because I'm not interested in minimizing some prediction error for some deterministic outcome, like ‘hey I added X, Y, zed and reduced these metrics by ABC.’ To me, the more interesting stuff is, here’s a bunch of unsupervised methods to just kind of pull out things and cool bits of tidbits of information and insights that can be used as a way to point in a way, point to some directions to actually design with.”

## Chris Walker Bio

Chris enjoys working at the intersection of policy, data science and design. His career has taken him across multiple industries, disciplines and places and he aims to bring a modern mixed-methods approach to projects. Outside of IDEO he has consulted on design and policy projects ranging from middle-school financial literacy in the Bay Area, energy sector reform in Uganda and mobile-money ecosystems in Mozambique. He still feels slightly uncomfortable speaking in the third person.

He has worked as a Foreign Exchange Strategist for both Barclays and UBS, publishing research, forecasting and advising global central banks and asset managers on political economy trends. He also sat on the other side of the table, working as an economic and political strategist for Principal Global Investors. Finally, he has worked in emerging market Fintech as Principal Data Scientist at Juntos Global. Through automated text messages, he designed experiments to understand the behavioural mechanisms underpinning technology adoption and financial inclusion amongst the world's newly banked.

A contributor to global financial media including CNBC and Bloomberg television he has been published and cited in The Guardian, Financial Times, and Wall Street Journal. He received a Masters in International Policy (MIP) from Stanford University. Here he focused on policy design and computational social science and also studied systems design at the Hasso Plattner Institute of Design (d.school). He received his BSc in Economics from the University of Warwick, UK.
