---
layout: post
title: "B2A 004 - Ryan Cranfill"
date: 2021-03-29 09:00:00 -0600
file: https://www.dropbox.com/s/dbymum5q3si4aje/B2A%20004%20-%20Ryan%20Cranfill.mp3
summary: "IDEO Senior Designer & Data Scientist Ryan Cranfill talks about his path to data science through acoustic design, environmental impact studies, and the Twitter firehose."
description: "Ryan talks about how he started out analyzing highway acoustics and ended up a data scientist."
duration: "22:39" 
length: "1359"
explicit: "no" 
keywords: ""
block: "no" 
voices: "Chris Kucharczyk, Ryan Cranfill"
---

## Selected Quotes

“At a startup or on an IDEO project, you don’t have time to make something perfect. Something that gets you 80% of the way there is perfectly fine because what you’re trying to do is not make the final version of this thing. You just want to learn… That’s the core of IDEO to me: make things to learn things.”

“I am the least rigorously educated data scientist at IDEO. It took me a while until I realized 'Oh, I can actually lean into this, lean into the intuition that I have, not overthink things. It’s not going to be right, and that’s ok, the goal is learning.'”

“I don’t really like the label or title of Data Scientist. It’s not super descriptive. What kind of scientist does not use data? [Data science] is a broad, interdisciplinary field. What a data scientist is varies from person to person.”

“The core of what a data scientist does is take the records of the past (aka, data) and do something useful with them.”

“You come into contact with the kinds of work that data scientists do from the moment you wake up to the moment you go to sleep. You know a lot more about this data, how it works, and how to ask questions and interpret the data to answer those questions than you think. If I’m doing my job right, I can help to facilitate that for you and get us all on the same page.”

## Ryan Cranfill Bio

Ryan is a Data Scientist at IDEO Chicago, where he weaves data and software expertise together to design impactful solutions for clients.

At IDEO, Ryan’s work has included using agent-based simulation on real-world roadway data to push the design of next-generation of delivery vehicles and services, creating a novel method of running numerical optimizations at scale using serverless computing, and crafting artware that uses touch and musical input to generate album art via a neural network.

Prior to IDEO he honed his craft at startups and small firms working in various industries - IT hardware, social listening, and environmental sciences to name a few. He holds a Bachelor of Science in Acoustics from Columbia College Chicago.

In his free time you can find him coding up strange prototypes, cooking and/or eating delicious food and drink, and making noise that could charitably be described as music.

